# CS-340_Client-Server-Dev
This project includes the final dashboard code and README file from the final project for the Client/Server Development course at SNHU

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable, it is important to make the code in a modular fashion. To me, this means both checking the functionality of the code after every minor change to avoid developing on top of bugs as well as writing code that has functions for reuse. Using code formatting and naming conventions are also extremely useful for these purposes. The use of consistency and white space can have a huge impact on how readable code is. In this course, we learned about the building blocks that we then created a larger system on top of. This gave me an advantage to be able to work modularly. I had the opportunity to troubleshoot the smaller components before they coalesced with larger concepts to create a fully-functioning, dynamic web app. The CRUD Python module I created could be very useful for me in the future, since it is one version of how to interface with a server database in order to display data to a client.

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
As a computer scientist, I approach problems modularly and meticulously, while still keeping the bigger picture in mind. The end goal was to provide the client side with a dynamic web app that displays data from a database in multiple different ways. I built from the ground up by paying attention to the details in the assignment prompts. My approach for this project differed from previous courses' assignments in that it made me think about how many of the concepts I had learned about in theory logistically work together to create a fully-functioning web app. In the future, I will continue to use the strategies of working modularly, thinking creatively, and mapping out the flow of data with pen and paper to meet other client requests.

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists take complex problems and client requests and innovate creative solutions to reach a common goal. The world of Big Data is only starting to boom. Clients' needs for highly accessible, responsive, customizable, and effective data visualizations will continue to increase exponentially. My work on this type of project will help companies like Grazioso Salvare to streamline the path to their greater goals.
